[Music]
Hello, welcome to the weekly podcast
where we recommend and exchange content
that we've read, listened to, and watched.
I'm Artur, and it's cold, and tomorrow it's going to be
hot. São Paulo is tough, and I
'm... after a week of in-person work, I'm tired but
alive, and in
today's program, we're going to talk about
problematic redesigns,
public roadmaps, and the fall in stocks, the case of
Sonos. Look at that! But before we get to the PR agenda, there's a
plug, as always, it couldn't be missing.
Well, let's go! Not this
Saturday, but next Saturday we'll have the fourth
edition of the AI ​​for PR course
with the presence of our illustrious... on
September 14th, right? Just to make it
clear here in case you're listening to this
in the future,
because in September, exactly, the spots are already
running out! So, leave it there to
buy on the day of the course. In the last edition, there were
two people who bought on the day
of the course. The course
started at 10 am, and at 9:30 am they
went there and bought it, so... and pay
more, right? So, take advantage of
doing nothing on Saturday to take a course,
okay?  Okay, so, since
you're listening here, if
you want to learn in practice—and I mean really learn in
practice, not just theory or copy-pasting
stuff from abroad—
sign up! There's a 15% discount using
the link in the description. There will also be
two more editions of the critical thinking course
with Duduzeira from RD Station. There will be an
in-person edition on October 5th
here in São Paulo, and another online edition on October 19th.
Both have already
sold out their initial tickets, so
hurry up! Don't leave it to the last minute;
you have more time, but don't wait until the
last minute! Take advantage of the
discount; don't be silly and pay more
when you can pay
less now, and even less if you use
the link in the description! So,
let's go! And thank you, the
proceeds will be used to buy diapers and
baby supplies. Exactly! And besides the
shout-out to Arena's course, we also have
that usual request we
normally make at the end of the program, but
bringing it here: listen to the program and
like it! Go wherever you like it!  Listen to
podcasts and give them five stars, like them,
do whatever on the
platform you use, leave a
comment, subscribe or
add them to your playlist. This really helps
the podcast grow. All the
interaction there helps the algorithm understand that
people are enjoying it and can recommend it
to more people, thus helping the
podcast grow. It also recommends, which is what
we always say here, if each
listener recommends the podcast to one more
person, the podcast doubles in size, right? So
let's go, help us out! Now, let's get
to the topic. Let's go!
[Music] Okay, the
article we're going to discuss
today is a situation that Sonus has been going through
since it redesigned its
system, but which ended up affecting several
other things, until the CEO issued
a statement apologizing. There's even a
public roadmap now. If you do
n't know Sonus, it's a company that
makes speakers and headphones with
high-quality sound. It was founded in 2002, went
public in 2018, and when it went public, it
was valued at $1.5 billion. It has more than
two patents.  2000 patents related to
hardware and software, and like
many companies, they made several
layoffs, including one last month of
about 100 people. But let's get to the
facts: in April of this year, they did a
mega redesign of the app. They removed a lot of
features, messed up
usability and accessibility, and had a lot of
problems with pairing
and everything else. At the time of launch, the app
was heavily criticized. The company even
released a statement to the world
saying that the redesign showed how committed
they were to
innovation and that they had a lot of courage to
do what they did. Then in May, they
released some updates because things were getting heated.
They went and fixed
a few things. In July, the CEO sent an
email to Base apologizing and
said, "Look, I'm going to give you a timeline of the
fixes we're going to do to focus
on fixing things." They delayed
two new products they were going to launch,
including a competitor for Apple TV. There was even a
rumor that they would do a
rollback to relaunch the
old app, but that didn't happen. And then they
launched a...  The text is a jumbled collection of words and phrases, seemingly unrelated and nonsensical. It appears to be gibberish or garbled, possibly from a website
or document. A direct translation is impossible without context. It seems to be a mix of Portuguese and English, with some grammatical errors and incomplete sentences. A possible interpretation, given the lack of coherent meaning, could be: "The redesign has tabs that show what's on the roadmap, what's coming up, recent things they've fixed, and topics they've listened to from customers that they're going to start working on.
But anyway, what about the redesign of an app that contributed to Sonos' stock falling more than 30% since April and even delaying the launch of new products? The impact of the redesign,
right? It's just... it's just painting the screen differently, it's just front-end design, it's not just to make it clear, right? It wasn't
just the redesign that brought down the stock; it
also showed weak sales results in
Q2, almost 20% in sales. But
the stock was up on
launch day, even increasing the
stock price. But then it just went downhill. Good
man, every redesign is crap, right? Damn, damn,
there you go, you're swearing,
I'll have to put it there when I
publish the
episode, it contains
explicit content, so put it there, we'll
get a B for the mistake, put it there
now, but when you edit you
'll have to put a pi."  When I try to
hold back from saying it, but
honestly, as a
product person, redesign is one of the things I least
enjoy doing. Redesign and rebranding
usually go hand in hand, so it's even
worse. But when I say it's
a pain, I'm obviously joking,
but it's because it's a real pain.
Because by
nature, I think every redesign will
displease someone. There's no redesign
that 100% of
your app's users will like
because you're changing
people's habits. You're messing
with something they were already
used to doing, however
clandestine it may be, they knew how to click 12 times
and get to the place, so eventually there
will be someone who won't like your
redesign. And I think that as
product people, we have to be very
aware of who we're
displeasing and how we're going to
track that displeasure. So what
are the indicators, the metrics that
we're going to use to say that we
should go back? Which I
personally have never seen happen, at
least in the places I've worked.
We've never gone back on a decision. I'll tell you
a story in a moment, I'll wait to tell you the
story, or what happens most commonly,
which I think is the case here
too, is rushing to change what's
not working, right? And there's something even
more challenging in
these cases, which is that usually the people who will
be most vocal about the changes,
who will complain the most, are the people
who are the most Power Users of your product,
but that Power
Users aren't necessarily a reflection of your more
general customer base. And sometimes a redesign
and a rebranding come along with
changing the customer focus as well, so
sometimes the Power User isn't the person
you want to reach going forward, right?
So it's very tricky, man. I
think I've been through redesigns in all
the places I've worked, some more
justified, others less justified, in terms of
why we were doing it, but it's
always been challenging because it's something that
involves many areas and also requires
a lot of coordination. So,
as product
is tough, you said, right? Like, we
usually don't have the indicators to
say whether or not we should go back on a decision,
right? And that's one of the things.  What I
always say when we're
developing any product, like this, for the
guys I work with, is like
when we
pop the champagne or when we
break the bottle, you know?
And then I remembered, even
when we were writing this
article, thinking about redesign, etc., it had
been 10 years since I was the PM for the
Fit app redesign in 2014, damn, I'm really
getting old. But
anyway, it's cool, that's it. It was a
little before I knew about it, but
the redesign we did on the
Fit app was in line with metal design, it was just being
born, you know, the Google concept and
blah blah blah. And then we went there and followed
Google's Guide Guidelines to the letter, like 100%,
and it was the launch of that
floating button, right? Today it's super common. Uh-huh,
but I'm talking about 2014 when the
most used cell phone was the Samsung Galaxy Pocket, everything
was uncharted territory back then, everything was uncharted territory.
Exactly, I had a ton of hair back then.
Still a ton. Yeah.  It's crazy, is
n't it? But anyway,
when we launched the
app, one of the things that... well, it's
commerce, you know, commerce... you
're there every hour looking at the numbers, etc.,
etc. So when we launched, with
every update we
made, we always had
metrics already in place: were people
scrolling more, spending more
time on the main screens,
adding to cart, blah blah blah.
We already had these metrics, so
naturally it was easier to
track each update. We were
comparing them, you know? We didn't launch to the entire user
base first either. But when
we
made a very drastic change, like a
button like "add to
cart," we changed it to a
floating thing. So
the metrics we
wanted to look at were: were
people scrolling more?
In our minds, were they
looking for the "add to
cart" button? And second, was the number of
people adding products to their cart? It was
based on... well, that's how it
worked.  We launched a
small percentage of it, and then
the flood of complaints started, and now the Fit app is
just a display, I can't add
products to the cart, oh my god,
brother! We went crazy, again,
saying, "In 2014, it wasn't so
easy to
stop updates, etc., etc., feature
tugging." It wasn't like what
we have today, you know? Anyway, it
was incredibly important for us to know
this beforehand, to know it when it was live, otherwise,
we would have been screwed, it would have
completely messed up sales.
I think the best
redesign cases I've been through were like
this: we had a lot of clarity about where
we
could have the most impact, the most
negative impact, and we were very
aware of whether it was happening or not. And you said
no, not explicitly, right? But the
thing I think is super important is that
every redesign isn't just about tracking the
quantity; you have to look at the quality as well.
So in those cases, we also
looked at customer service, if people
were complaining about those
specific things, we looked at
social media, it was natural. So those
are two things you have to keep
in mind.  So, what are you messing with, right?
Like, if you're doing a
redesign, you're doing it for a reason. Like
I said, sometimes there's a good reason,
and sometimes there isn't such a good reason.
Sometimes you just want to tinker, and sometimes
you really have something to do, you have to
modernize the business and all that. But
you have to be clear about what you
think will change for the better and what
you think might have a
negative impact. And normally you have
that rollercoaster ride
when you do it; it's natural to feel
a bit down in those first few days because
people are relearning how to use the product.
You can't panic. That's why you have to keep a
cool head. And
what's my "Trash Hold" here, right?
Exactly, exactly. All the redesigns
I've done, for some of them, we've
gone through a bit of that; it
gave us that little bit of butterflies in our stomach. But
again, the importance of
phased routing, especially since we're
talking mainly about applications,
etc., and also the part about measuring
well to know, like, what
questions you want to answer, you know?
Having the metrics for that, I think that's pretty much it.
I think there are cases, but I
remember a
big product redesign, a well-
known one, that I don't
remember getting much of a rating for, like
Slack, last year or the year before,
something like that. It was good because I don't
remember exactly. That's it, that's the
thing, it was so natural, the thing was,
it wasn't disruptive to
people's work processes, which is another
thing. Here it's different to
redesign a product that
people use to work than to redesign
a direct-to-
consumer product, things like that, because in the
first case, changing things
can make people less
productive and, in the worst case, make them quit.
And that also applies to the other sense, which is
going back to habits,
we have habits within the
applications we use, we have
commands we know, there are things
you ask us to do, we'll
do them blindly in applications
we use many times. And when
you're making, for example, a new
product to compete with an
existing product, especially in this
corporate context, you're not just competing with your
own.  The product needs to be better, you're competing with
all that muscle memory and productivity,
so your product can't just be
marginally better; it has to be
orders of magnitude better so that it's not like, "
Even if I have to relearn how to
do this, is this relearning worth it?"
Or, "Do I not have to
relearn? Do it in a
different way that's much easier?"
So it's a challenge too. Yes, yes, man.
In one of the companies I
worked for, when we did a
product redesign, we didn't release it
to the main users for a long
time. Like, at the beginning we were
only going to release it to them; they were helping
us build it. When we released it,
they complained a lot
because they were following along. Then we
rolled it back to them to
use the normal version, and it improved and
refined some other things. After
we had already released it to, I don't know,
90% of the user base, we released it to
them again and said, "Take a look now,
see what you think." And then, "Oh, yes,
now yes." But it took some time
for that, you know? And I think...  So,
you can choose to
release it to your main
users first, or you can
release it randomly, and depending
on how robust your stack is,
you can also select to
call a little bit from each of the
things you have, and so on. Yes, but
you mentioned another redesign
that I remembered here. I think it's really
cool. And today we don't even remember it much,
but when it caused a big buzz, which
was Uber's, there's
a really good article that I'll have to
find now. I always use it as a
reference, yes, it's from
the Uber design team. The
title is "The Design." It started
when we changed the question
we asked, which at the beginning of Uber
was "Where are you?" to then "Where are you going?"
and then in the
redesign they made it "Where are you going?"
because they already had a lot of stack
there, location, etc. But I really
like this article because
it explains the behind-the-scenes of the
good stuff. And what did you think of the
public roadmap? Look, we're doing this.
Hey guys, from the Sonos case, right? We're back
to Sonos just to let you know. I
have mixed feelings, man, because
I found the categories a little confusing.
What's
coming and what are things we're
working on? But what's the difference between
these things? And I thought,
being a publicly traded company, they
needed to act, you know?
So they said, "Okay, what can we
do here? Let's do it." In the
end, it might even be... I think
the initiative is good. I think it's
a huge
transparency. It might be a bit fake, but it's good to
step up and say, "Look, we
're making mistakes, we're trying to
fix them," and so on. I don't even think it's
fake. I think it's good in
their case to help build
trust with the customer base, to
rebuild, you know? Rebuild that. In the end,
they lost a lot of trust
given the complaints from people, so
it's a way to give a
more transparent response, but it's
clearly like an emergency, like, "
Damn, we need to show something," and
so on. It's not like GitLab, which has a
product strategy...  The roadmap for upcoming
planned releases is all open,
naturally for a while, that
app you use, the browser, etc. There's
also that thing you
always talked about, they talk a lot
about what they're building. They don't
have an open roadmap of upcoming things
here, but they talk a lot, like, "Oh,
we're experimenting with this," they put a
little prototype on Twitter for people
to comment, "What do you
think of this idea?" "Do you think
we should invest in this?" But it doesn't
reach the level of GitLab, like, I was
looking here and there are already things that will
be in the November releases, you know? It's
a very advanced thing. What
I don't like are cases of open roadmaps like that.
I saw a case that I tried to
find and couldn't find, it was also on Trello,
which was an open roadmap from a company
for a product where you could upvote
things, like that. And
why don't I like this
kind of
thing? For me, it's a kind of
committee-based product building approach, you
know? And I think our job as
product people is to build things
that are good for users and
good for the business too.  ...that works
for the business, for the company, and I think
this type of approach
tends to lean too heavily towards the
user, and damn, I'm not saying
we shouldn't be user-centric here,
I'm saying we always have to
balance things. I think it becomes that
very easy thing of "Oh, the user voted for this,
let's do this next thing, the user
voted for this, let's do this next
thing," which isn't necessarily always going to be
the right thing to do. You know, I
think using it as an input point is
super valid, but that can't be the
thing that defines your roadmap, the
next things you're necessarily going to do. You
know, I was going to say that,
yes, for me it's just another input, but
it shouldn't be the only thing that guides the
roadmap.
Definitely not,
especially in this wave we're in, with
various things and
thinking about how someone could try to
reverse-track
data to get it, you've seen several things like, "
Why can't your competitor
also go there and create a script
to vote too?" And if you're
guided, that's all...  And another thing,
summarizing this whole thing with
Sonos, we even joked at the
beginning about "Oh, it's not just about messing with the
front end." In this
case, they joked, they did a redesign.
But they messed with the core of their product,
right? Because one, they removed features that
were heavily used, and it probably
wasn't very clear how they would be used
in the new redesign. And another, they
had problems with
device pairing, so they also messed with the technology
there, you know? Because, like, the core of
their product is the speakers, the
headsets, etc. Remember, the headset is a
new product; the headset came out this year, I
think it's more or less...  From the time of
the redesign, there's also the whole issue
of... we only had one type
of product, now we have another
product along with it. And that sucks, right?
Because you make something
and you break it or it stops
working, the thing that makes your product, that
makes the interaction of your product happen, you know? It sucks,
right? Let's
see... hopefully, I saw people in the
comments of the post saying, "Oh, I'm
hoping they go bankrupt." Oh, man,
people are very extreme on the internet
too, right?
So
[ __ ] happens. Hopefully, in this
case, it was quite a lot of [ __ ], right? Yeah, that's it. I
'm not a user, so I don't know, we didn't
even talk about this, right? But the thing is, at
least I think there aren't any
officially in Brazil, right? You have to
import them and stuff, so... that's more the
impression of what people are
saying. But in fact, there was a lot of hate
in the last few months about this,
but I think to close,
just to make the bullet points of
what
we talked about, when you're going to do a redesign, if
you're there in your... the conversations are
happening, we need to... Let's do a
redesign. And then for reasons that only you
will know...
one... don't forget to look... okay?  What
are the main metrics we're
going to track to know if this thing worked
or not, if it's working or
not? Two, don't panic when
the first users start
because it's natural, everyone is
relearning.
Three, phased rollout, you're not going to release it to
everyone right away, otherwise you'll screw
up. 2024, right? My rollout is
exactly right, you have to have it up your sleeve. What
else? Okay, I think that's it, man.
I think that's pretty much what we
talked about here. And man, redesign is
always going to be difficult. If
you're going through a redesign and it's
a difficult process, know that
you're not alone, it's like that.
So grab the hand of the person next to you and
go for it, you'll come out on the other side, man, it'll be good.
[Music]
That's it. And with that, we arrive at our
products of the week. Let's go,
you said you start every week.
Last week I started, well, no, I did. I
even
put mine on the agenda here, not
yours, because of that. Okay, man, believe it or not, is the
ex,
Twitter is ex.  I don't know, you're going to say, "Hey
Xandão, look here, you can arrest me, you can
go there, no, but let's go." And it wasn't because of
all the drama that happened in the end, it's
because I... I like it, you know, we've
already talked about it in episodes, we really
like football, and I like it a lot
too, so I follow some profiles that
talk about transfers and everything
else, and I not only follow the profiles I follow the
most, I not only follow them, but I also turn on the
notification bell so that every tweet appears for me to be notified. And then Twitter isn't working, but the tweets arrive for the ones you've favorited, you know? And especially because today several transfer windows are closing,
right, from several leagues,
including the Brazilian one, it's
popping up, I'm following
the football transfers a lot here, you
just turn on the notification bell. What's the name of
that guy who announces all the
signings, man? It's Romano, ISO
Fabrício Romano, Fabrício Romano, he's a
sinid of Fabrício Romano, but there's a
guy, man, he's Turkish, I don't even know how to
pronounce him.  His name is... but there's a Turk who
's also sinister in transfers sometimes,
and since I follow both of them, he shows up
there, like, he posts and then a few minutes
later Fabrício posts, you know? So
I said, "Look, I'll check if
Fabrício Romano was on the trends," and he is,
but he hasn't posted in 60 weeks
on the trades. Go ahead, and yours? Look,
mine... I just started talking about it
here, which was the trades, actually, because
a lot of people migrated there, right? Now with
the drama that's going on on Twitter, even though
my Twitter is still working here
through the app on my phone, the Wi-Fi
here at home is working normally, it hasn't
stopped, but the 5G app has stopped, it's
going to take us both, we're going to split the
load,
but man, Twitter is calm without the
Brazilians, it's tranquil, but
I'm using trades for... there are people
there, right? More people migrated this
time to trades, so I'm
replacing mine... I talked about
muscle memory, right? My muscle memory here...
Open the...  Twitter, I'm directing people
to open the trading apps and eventually
Blue Sky too, I'm browsing
there, but for now I'm more into trading
than Twitter. Well, and today we also
had
records, we exploded, we exploded! And we
want to thank everyone who sent messages,
don't forget to send them, keep sending them, we
appreciate it, we love sending a
shout-out to you all and talking about the apps,
right? Ágata Cristina sent Max, right,
Max, which they also
rebrand every trading day, my
friend, but she said they
updated it, did a rebranding, and that the
highlights are better and stuff, and it's the
streaming service she's using the most.
Gabriel sent IKF, which is a
competitor of iFood, I use the same
name, right, IKF? Well, actually it's
part of
the Corporation Corp.
Alice Portugal sent the Apple Watch, or
a physical product, to
track her sleep because she's been a bit
sick and stuff, and she's using it, which
sends the information to the app, I don't know
what. Praças sent the Adidas Running shoes.
He has several apps where you can answer
a questionnaire, and he creates
personalized running workouts and everything else.
Bob sent the dieser app, and you said he
's subscribing to dieser, you know why?
Because it's free on Mel, but
you complained, and look, people
like it, people liked it! So,
Spotify sent Sketchbook, drawing,
drawing, writing, and more. ET sent Linked, and
Bioritmo said it's for
scheduling classes, but Magno
sent Broadlink, which is for automations,
etc. Nana sent Livelo, and Pilon, who
's renovating her apartment, etc.,
sent Pinterest for
references, right? She was getting tattoos and
decorating houses, Pinterest
is the number one product. Portinho sent it, and it
even reached I don't know how many
millions, 100 million orders, right?
Congratulations to PR guys! The
VPN app, who's going to be the big winner? Another PR,
PR, PR for us!
I'll even tell you here, Riban's Met
suddenly stopped working for me, but then
I went to Reddit and saw in the groups there that...
They said, "Dude, just activate VPN, then it
will activate the functionality again, let's
forget about it." You did that to continue
without using it, to continue without using it, but just do
n't lose it, like there, right? Okay, but let's go.
Dani Leira sent the
Stickler pon, Stickler pon ly, Stickerly is
Stickerly. Ner sent the Off Ramp, which is
a Global Web 3.0 account that converts
crypto to Real Time, full of... I don't
even know what it is, but he sent it. And then Ru
and Fábio sent the Lit too,
including they used my link
to convert more leads to the link. Yeah,
come here, there are already about two programs, right?
Exactly, I'll leave the link here too
for anyone else who wants it, use my
link, I get a discount too, and that's it,
use it, use it. And taking advantage of this,
we also ask you to
comment on the episodes wherever
you listen. So let's talk about the
people who commented too, so
Nana Menezes commented on Spotify in the
last program that she's not Camila
but she knows several people, asking if she could
get a discount for the course because of it.
That's what we were talking about, right? If any
Camila wanted to sign up, she'd get a
discount. Yes, there's a discount, like that.
Look, call Artur, the
member gets Camila, Camila gets
member, that's it. And
@felipe
Mininel 5555
commented on our YouTube podcast, "
Papo da Nena 37," about
critical and analytical thinking. He had a super
provocative and information-rich conversation, so it was
super cool. Thank you for your
comments, Felipe Nana. And here's an
invitation for you who listened to this
program: Go wherever you listen to
podcasts and leave your comment. Leave it on
Spotify, YouTube, you can comment on
Substack, on LinkedIn itself. We
also had a lot of people interacting in
our last episode on LinkedIn,
some super cool debates, so comment
there, we like it. PR
[Music]
Wow, with that we end
today's program. That's it, that's it. Next week there's
more. Next week is the
Apple event, right? So most
likely we'll talk about the
iPhone
16 and whatever else comes up at
next week's event, so giving you a spoiler for the
next one.  Okay, so
next week we'll be back, and don't
forget to give us five stars,
comment, and recommend us to a friend. We
already mentioned it at the beginning and end, and we'll say it
again: follow us on social media too, and follow
us on social media
@arena
@x @ur close comk, and we'll see you next
week, my dear. That's it, until
next week, thanks, bye!